OK.
So, umm, so today we're gonna go
over linear algebra and geometry
and geometric interpretations to
kind of get a little bit more
familiar with some of the
operations that we're gonna use
and also start putting you in
the mind frame of how.
How we view data and how we
organize that data?
But before we do that, I wanted
to point out a couple things.
So last meeting I did tell you
that I goofed with the the due
date for project two.
I'm still maintaining Project 2
for October 16th.
However, I have.
I did realize that there were
errors.
That error was propagated down
through Project 3A and 3B.
So because we haven't started on
those, I have shifted those due
dates.
Again, if there's an issue with
this, contact me outside of this
I I can work with you, but like
I was saying before, to stick
with the deadlines and to stay
on topic for the projects going
along with the lectures, I think
it's important for us to have
these due dates.
So Project 3A right now is gonna
be due October 16th, which you
see is the same date as Project
2 being due.
I'm going to keep it that way
again, unless you come in, plead
your case with me.
So I would highly encourage you
to finish our project too and
get started on Project 3.
So I think at the end of lecture
what I'll do is I'll give you an
overview of Project 3 and what
you're gonna be doing.
OK.
And introduce them.
OK.
So today we're gonna do a linear
algebra.
So I have the slides pulled up
here.
I don't know what I changed
here.
That's a little worrisome, but
we shall get going.
OK.
So again, this lecture is umm
for those of you who.
Maybe you haven't seen linear
algebra concepts in a while, or
maybe ever.
Umm, I'm not quite sure it was a
prereq of this.
Any experience with linear
algebra or did anyone take a
linear algebra?
Umm, no.
Many years ago.
All right.
Many, many years ago.
OK, well, stick with me.
Yeah.
I'll try to make this as
painless as possible.
Linear algebra.
Algebra is prequel, OK?
Oops.
And I'm already skipping ahead.
OK, so linear algebra we have
this concept of vectors, so
here's a vector that we have.
This vector starts at the origin
and goes to this point here
which is described AS2 comma 3.
All right, so why is this
important?
So I think I introduced last
time that we oftentimes think
about or data I copying feature
space and we can think of them
as points within feature space.
It is also sometimes useful to
not just think of them as
points, but to take this
interpretation of them as
vectors within feature space.
And I think by the end of this
lecture, hopefully I'll give you
some reasons as to why we might
wanna treat them as vectors.
But uh, but we certainly have
this interpretation for our data
points.
So here's this vector 2.
Comma three, we have the first
dimension.
Uh, first and then the second
dimension, right?
So first dimension second.
OK, typically you'll see.
Uh.
Vectors themselves.
Written with angle brackets,
variable names are usually in
lower case with an arrow over
the top.
So if we're talking about a
vector, it's a single dimension,
meaning that it is in array like
a one by N array, right?
So these are vectors.
OK, so we can create vectors
from two points.
So here we have two points
within our space.
Now, I said before that we can
think of the interpretation of a
vector or of a point here as a
vector with the origin here.
To that point in space.
But sometimes we'll wanna think
about vectors in space so we can
do this from 2 points in space.
So here's our .1, which is 2
comma 5 and then we have .2
which is 3 comma one and if we
subtract these points from each
other it describes the vector
that goes in between them that
starts at 2/5 and goes to three
one.
OK, alright.
So not only can we describe
points, we can describe them as
vectors.
We can also describe a vector
that goes between two points,
OK, and we do that through the
the subtraction operation.
OK.
And then this vector.
Here we can describe as also one
common -, 4 which we can also
describe.
Here we can conceptualize this
as a vector that starts at the
origin, then goes to one common
-, 4.
But you can see that the
direction and magnitude of this
vector is the same as this one
up here.
OK, so that's an important
point.
Is that these vectors give us
direction as well as overall
length of them.
Alright.
And those are important features
that we're going to make use of
when we start applying
mathematical models to our
points or our observations.
OK, so we can represent vectors
using a library called Numpy.
I think I've mentioned Numpy
before.
I don't think we've directly
used Numpy, though we've been
relying really on pandas, so
pandas itself is built on Numpy,
so you can actually go into
pandas and you can return Numpy
arrays or ND arrays.
They call them from a series or
from a data frame by using the
DOT values property or calling
the dot values properties so
that returns an ND array which
is the Numpy data structure.
OK, so vectors are represented
as ND arrays and Numpy.
So you can create them from
Python lists, so you can use
MPs.
So MPs the what do we wanna call
this?
The reference that we use for
Numpy itself, so you can do MP
dot array and you can generate
an ND array.
From this you can also they have
some of these functions in here
for commonly created arrays
like.
If you wanted an array of zeros,
you could use MPP dot zeros and
it will create a vector of all
zeros and then here you can also
create a vector of all ones
using NP ones.
OK.
So good number.
OK, so we have this idea of
scalar multiplication then, so
vectors can be multiplied by a
scalar.
So if you have this vector here,
which consists of the values 5,
three and one single dimension,
if we come in and with Numpy
define this vector and then use
our multiplication operator and
just a scalar value.
So a single value, what it's
going to do is it's going to do
element wise multiplication.
So it'll do 5 * 5 three times 5
and 1 * 5, and this is the
resulting vector.
So if you do scalar
multiplication with vectors in
Numpy, you get back a vector.
That's the same length and
shape, OK.
No biggie.
Alright, we can also do vector
addition, so we can do an
addition of 1 vector with
another vector.
So in this case we have these
two vectors that are each of
length three.
So the 1st 1123, the second one
is 531 and if we do addition
with this.
So if we use the addition
operator within Python, what it
is going to do is it's going to
do elementwise addition.
So what you can appreciate from
this is that if you wanna add 2
vectors together, they have to
be of the same shape or they
have to have the same
dimensions.
OK, so it doesn't make sense to
add a four element vector to a
three element vector.
OK, cool.
So that's what that operator
will be.
All right, now we have a dot
product.
So we are going to use dot
products a lot and in fact if
you look carefully, A dot
product looks an awful lot like
a model that we've already
talked about in this class.
OK.
So that product is a fundamental
operation within linear algebra.
So you can perform dot products
between two vectors.
So what a dot product between
two vectors is going to do again
in this case, if you're doing a
dot product between two vectors,
you want the vectors to be of
the same length.
They have to have the same
number of elements, So what this
does is it multiplies the first
two elements together in,
multiplies the second two
elements together, and
multiplies the third two
elements together, in this case,
and then it takes the sum of all
of those.
OK, so you can appreciate unlike
scalar multiplication, and
unlike vector addition, what the
dot product is going to do is
it's going to take your end
length vector or two in length
vectors, and it's going to
return a single value from them.
Yeah, arsalon.
So I imagine you're gonna
explain this little more about
when you're going through this.
I I know that this is a
fundamental concept of finding
weights when you're training out
like a model, can you kind of
explain a little bit?
Just give us some hint about
what these what these actually
represent in terms of our like
training a machine learning
model.
There's like, is there a way to
or something?
So we're not quite there yet.
I'd rather I'd rather get
through these fundamentals first
and then we can start seeing how
we can apply them to models.
Umm.
But I think if you're keen eyed
here, this equation here looks
an awful lot like multiple
linear regression where we have
a coefficient here and then we
have a value of one of our
observations, right?
So this is like coefficient for
future one and this is feature
one coefficient for feature two.
This is feature two and so on
and so forth.
So you can actually use that
products or what we'll see is
matrix multiplication, which is.
A very similar to dot products
and we can use these two apply
parameters, 2 models.
We're not going to use this to
directly solve for the
parameters.
OK, alright.
So to do this in Numpy, you
don't wanna use the
multiplication symbol, you wanna
use the method NP dot dot. OK.
Umm.
Groovy.
So there we are.
What about magnitude though?
So I said that vectors
themselves not only have
direction, but they have
magnitude as well.
Sometimes it's helpful for us to
be able to talk about or think
about the magnitude of a vector.
So the way that we can calculate
the magnitude of the vector is
we can take the dot product of a
vector with itself and then take
the square root of this.
So what is this doing?
This is multiplying the values
of each one of its dimensions.
It adds them all up and then it
takes the square root of it.
OK, sounds good.
So to do this, you can layer
these together.
So here's our vector of 1111.
So this is a four dimensional or
it we could think of it as an
observation described by 4
features and here you can see
that we can dot it with itself
and then take the square root of
it and we get two.
So the magnitude of this vector
is actually two OK.
All right.
So not only are magnitudes
important, but a very, very
common metric that a lot of
machine learning models make use
of.
Is this idea of distance so
Euclidean distance?
You may have heard of this
before, but why is this
important?
So oftentimes what we're curious
about within our feature space
is how does one point relate to
another point?
And one way that we can describe
that relationship is what is the
distance between these points?
So you can imagine that
observations that are described
by very similar values of
features are going to be very
close to each other in Euclidean
distance, and two observations
that are described by very
different feature values are
going to be far away from one
another.
So that's why we get why we use
Euclidean distance.
So we can calculate the distance
by uh using this expression.
So this expression what you're
doing here is you're really
taking the dot product between
your vector U minus your vector
V and itself again, and then
take the square root of that.
OK.
With me.
OK, So what this comes out to is
you take the first feature, the
first element of you minus the
first element in TV.
You take that difference, you
square it and then you take all
of these differences, square
them, add them all together and
get the square root.
That'll give you Euclidian
distance, OK.
And in fact, if we take a look
back here at magnitude, this is
the exact same thing that
magnitudes doing.
It's just we can imagine a -, 0
here, right, because we're
taking the magnitude to this
point from the origin.
OK, so that gives us the
magnitude Ruby, but.
All right, so Euclidian
distance.
So magnitude and direction
vectors have magnitudes, lengths
as well as direction, so the
magnitude as we talked about
here we can solve for the
Euclidean distance between the
origin and this point here.
And to get direction what we can
do is we can take the vector and
then divide by this magnitude.
OK.
All.
So in addition to these basic
functions, let's take a look at
that product a little bit more
in depth and trying to like
build an intuitive understanding
of what is the dot product
actually doing in our space.
So there are a couple of
properties here.
So one property is that products
compare vectors, right?
So what we can get out of this
is if we have two vectors and
these vectors are orthogonal to
one another, so they're at in
two dimensional space, they're
at right angles from one
another.
If we evaluate the dot product
on that, we'll actually get a
dot product of 0.
So just by evaluating the DOT
product on any two vectors, if
it comes out at zero, then we
know that these vectors are
orthogonal to one another.
OK.
Uh.
In a similar idea, if we have
two vectors here, but these
vectors are going in the same
direction, if we take the
normalized dot product or or the
dot product of the unit vectors,
what we'll get is the dot
product between these two.
If they're going in the same
direction and they're parallel,
the dot product equals one.
And if there are anti parallel
to one another, this normalized
bad product is -, 1 so one way
that I like to view dot products
and you'll see them all over the
place.
11 way that I like to view that
products is they're kind of like
a compass for us within feature
space.
So if we have a reference vector
that we know a lot about and we
wanna compare another vector to
it, it gives us the ability to
compare that vector.
So in two dimensional space we
can just plot them and look at
them.
What happens when we get to like
50 dimensional space?
The DOT product still applies,
right?
We can expand this out to many
different dimensions, but it
acts as a compass to tell us
like, how does this other vector
compare to the one that we're
interested in? OK.
Can you go back to?
Alright.
Sorry, can you go back to real
quick or are they all unit
inspector or this one this does
not need to be?
Umm so.
So I do unit vector, so if you
do the unit vector, if you
normalize the vector by its
magnitude and then you do this
comparison if they're parallel
to one another, it will be one.
If they're not parallel to one
another, it'll be a positive
value, but.
Yeah.
Right.
It won't be one and -, 1 and
similarly here.
But the purpose?
OK.
Yeah, but in the perfect.
So that that's for the parallel
and antiparallel, but in the
perpendicular case.
You don't need to do unit vector
stuff.
It's just you just stop them.
Yeah, this will always be true.
OK. Thanks.
OK.
Yeah.
And in fact, if you know, I'll
do the thing as Professor quote.
If you wanna prove this to
yourself, pick two vectors that
you know are orthogonal to one
another and do the dot product
and you'll see why it always
comes out as zero.
OK.
All right, so normal vectors.
OK.
So normal vectors are
perpendicular to surfaces, so
that's just what a normal vector
is.
OK, so if we have a surface, we
can define a normal vector for
that surface, and that normal
vector he is any vector that
meets this.
Uh.
Condition in that is
perpendicular to the surface
itself.
So here you see this plane
that's being visualized.
And here are two normal vectors
to this plane, and what you can
see is that these normal vectors
themselves are perpendicular and
coming directly off that plane
off that surface.
OK, so normal vectors are often
used for defining geometric
object or indicate its origin
itself.
So remember, last time I was
talking about how we think about
classification and decision
boundaries, right?
And I was also talking about
hyperplanes.
I mentioned hyperplanes.
So hyperplane, so a plane is a
flat geometric object that
divides the space in half.
Umm.
So if we have a space with end
dimensions, a plane is going to
be an n -, 1 dimensional object,
and that's known as a
hyperplane.
In general, it's known as a
hyperplane, so this might be a
line in two dimensions.
It might be a plane that we
understand in three dimensions,
or it could be a hyperplane.
If we go to four or five 6710, a
100 dimensions.
OK, So what you can see here is
we can define this plane using a
point on the plane and a normal
vector, so that is one way that
we can define planes themselves
that go through spaces is
through just a single point that
resides on that plane and a
normal vector.
OK, so planes are defined.
So this is the normal form using
a normal vector N and a point
are not that lies on the plane.
OK, so all points are for which
the equation is true lie on the
plane and all points that are
not.
Sorry, all other points are not
on the plane, So what this means
is we can define our not right.
We can define a normal, uh
vector and then given these two
all this constant, these are
going to define a plane in space
for us and this is related
through this expression.
So what does this expression
doing?
Well, I just told you earlier
that if we take two points and
we subtract them, we got the
vector that spans in between
them, right?
So if I have this point P on my
plane and I or we could think of
this as R not and I have another
point that's on my plane.
If I subtract these two, I'm
going to get a vector that rides
along.
That's in line with my plane,
right?
You'll see that.
So that's going to describe a,
A, an angle or direction and
magnitude.
And then what this relationship
says is I also told you that if
we take a vector and we dot it
with another vector which this
vector rides along the plane, I
said that this is always going
to equal 0 for for what?
Perpendicular vectors.
This is grade class, maybe I
shouldn't ask active questions.
What was that?
Not for perpendicular vectors.
Yeah, so perpendicular.
So this is a vector that rides
on your plane.
This is a vector.
That's normal to your plane, so
these two together is going to
equal 0 because they're
perpendicular to each other,
right?
The normal vector is going to be
perpendicular to the vector
that's on your plane.
OK.
So that's where that comes from.
So the equation measures the
angle between the normal and the
factors.
If the two vectors are
orthogonal, then they're not
product is all right.
So checking we're point lies
relative to a plane, so we can
use a hyperplane to divide a
space in half, and knowing that
the dot product measures angles,
we can use the definition of a
hyperplane to determine on which
side of the plane to point lies.
This is really kind of cool,
right?
So we have this condition which
can help us find points on the
plane.
But if we substitute this out
where this points on the plane,
this normal vector is normal to
the plane and we start
substituting points in here what
we will find is that if the
point ends if the if, this
evaluates out to a positive
value, then it's going to be on
one side of the plane.
If this evaluates out to a
negative value, it's going to be
on the other side of the plane,
and if it evaluates out to zero
then it's going to ride right
along the plane, and this forms
the basis for a lot of decision.
Wow, this forms the basis for
logistic regression, at least in
that if we can describe these
two things we're describing the
hyperplane, the hyperplanes, the
model, and then by applying this
model to new points, we can tell
which side of the plane a point
actually resides on, or which
class to classify it as you
digging.
Alright, that's great.
Well, is the question. Umm.
Wait, is this recent Rees?
And the main.
Uh, yeah.
I was just talking about like
the math thematical explanation
for why it always works out to
be 0 uh in the chat.
Ohh yeah yeah, you do have the
the relationship to cosign for
dot products as well.
OK, alright, cool.
So, oh, so this is what this is
saying.
So if you have your normal
vector and your point on the
plane, and you evaluate R and
it's equal to 0, the point lies
on the plane.
Otherwise, if this is greater
than zero, then the point lies
on the same side of the plane as
the normal vector, and if this
is negative, then the point lies
on the opposite side of the
plane as the normal vector.
This is also neat.
Well, I think I think I have
that later.
OK, alright.
That makes sense to everyone.
Everyone driving with me.
OK, alright.
So let's now talk.
Those were vectors.
Let's talk a little bit about
matrices.
So matrices are ordered
collections of vectors, so
that's a great way to think of
matrices.
So we can have either column
vectors or row vectors in a
matrix, right?
So here we have column vectors
and.
These are row vectors.
OK, so this matrix is made up of
three row vectors.
That's one way of thinking about
uh, and they're used to store
and perform operations on groups
of vectors in a single
operation.
So I think you can appreciate
that we have feature matrices
that what we're doing in pandas
is we're creating data frames
and then what we can do with
Numpy is if we can get all of
these values in our data frame
into the same data type, we can
make a feature matrix out of it.
OK.
And uh, our interpretation of
matrices follows that in that
each row is going to be an
observation, and that each
column is going to be a new
feature or a new dimension.
OK, alright, so here are three
points that are matrix actually
defines.
So in our interpretation of this
matrix, we can see that we have
three points, one point at 131
point at 5 seven and one point
at 911, and you see them all in
a line right here.
OK.
It just so happens that these
end up being in a line.
There's nothing requiring that,
though.
OK, so each row represents a
point and each column then
represents a dimension or the
value along a given axis.
Alright, so how we represent
matrices?
So a variable names are with a
capital letter typically, and
then we have an arrow over the
top.
So matrices use lower case in an
error.
Excuse me?
Vectors use lowercase and an
arrow matrices use uppercase and
an arrow.
OK, matrices are described by
the number of rows that they
have.
The number of columns they have
and the type of number, so you
might see something like this
where this is describing we have
matrix a here which is made up
of real valued numbers and it's
dimensions are 5 rows and three
columns.
Or we have 5 observations in
this described by the same 3
features.
OK.
All right can be described
using.
Ohh, we can also describe them
using indices directly.
So if I wanted to actually refer
to, uh, a vector in here, I
could do that.
I could also refer to a single
element 2 as described by its.
In this case row and column OK,
so it's always row, then column
or rise and then run.
OK, alright.
So we can use and be arrays in
Numpy to not only describe
vectors, but we can also use
them to describe matrices.
So to do that, we're going to
use are nested listed nested
lists.
So here we have three lists
within a larger list, so each
element in this larger list is
made up of a list, and in this
case it has two values.
All right.
So if we do this, we're going to
get a shape and call the shape
property on the ND array.
The shape is gonna tell us that
it's three comma two.
Once you start working with
matrices in Numpy at all, really
really rely on shape, I use
shape all the time because what
we'll see is a lot of matrix
operations depend on the shape
of the matrix itself and
operations will fail if you
don't meet the required shape.
I guess you can think of it that
way.
OK.
And similarly to creating
vectors, we can use methods like
ones and zeros and provide the
dimensions that we have in here.
So something to keep in mind
here, there's a gotcha that I
want you to be aware of is that
Numpy, for whatever reason, can
use a.
You can define a ND array as
having a single dimension, so
that's what I showed you before.
So you can describe an empty
array as vector of three
elements long.
That is actually different.
It's a different representation
than another option that this
doesn't immediately show you,
but another option is you could
describe a vector as three comma
one, so it's going to be thought
of as a matrix in ohm in Numpy,
but it is going to have just
elements along a single
dimension.
Does that make sense?
So wrong and depending on the
operation that you're doing,
some of them are expecting like
if you trying to mix and match
like you define one vector as a
Singleton.
Dimension and you describe
another vector as being like 3
comma, one.
Those have different
interpretations.
OK, so they don't always jive.
So if you start to see things
that are really weird and
failing you shape to figure out
what is actually interpreting
the dimensions as and make sure
that you're consistent with
those.
I like in the way that I think
about it.
Is, I think about everything as
these matrices, so I would add a
like a three comma one if I
wanted to represent a vector,
but also appreciate that A3
comma one factor is going to be
in this case it would be a
column vector and A1 comma three
is going to be a row vector.
OK.
You driving, OK?
Doesn't I?
We have a number of operations
that we can perform with Numpy,
so the way I think about Numpy
is Numpy is really a linear
algebra library for Python, so
transposing so transposing a
common ohm operation,
transposing what it does is it
rotates the matrix around the
diagonal so that if we transpose
it, we're going to flip all the
elements in the matrix across
the diagonal.
So what that means is if you
have a square matrix, so if you
have a matrix that's two by two
or four by four, it's going to
keep the diagonal the same, and
it's going to flip all of the
things in the top triangle into
the bottom, and vice versa.
That means if you have a non
square matrix like a three comma
two then what is going to do is
it's going to make it into a 2
comma three matrix.
OK.
So it actually flips those
dimensions.
So to transpose things here we
have this three comma two.
You can use the T the T is the
transpose or calls transpose on
the matrix, and in this case we
transpose.
A B then returns to row vectors
that is 159 and three 711 and
its shape is now 2.
Three, OK, alright, now
operations on matrices.
So we have now a matrix and we
can dot a matrix with a vector
and this is going to give us a
vector.
Ohh arsalon I didn't see your
hand.
I don't know how long your
hands.
Don't.
What's up?
Uh, I just rose it on the last
slide.
I've seen this idea of
transposing matrices, either in
a preprocessing step.
I think it was prepro data
preprocessing.
Why?
Why do we do that?
I think there are various
reasons why we might wanna do
that.
If you wanna look at features.
For us, one reason that we might
want to do it as if we wanna
look at features versus
observations, like if we wanna
flip that information, it
depends on the representation
that you wanna use.
And if you wanna calculate
things like covariance matrices,
what you can do is you can use
the transpose multiplied by the
matrix itself and what that
effectively does is it will it's
leading to a a covariance matrix
which tells you how does one
feature actually vary with
another feature.
OK, so multiplication so we can
do dot products between a matrix
and a vector, but we have to
adhere to a certain shape and
standard.
So what you get out of this is
another vector, and this is
where the shapes starts to
matter.
So in this case this is going to
be a 3 comma 2SO3 rows by two
columns and this is A2 rows by
one column, right?
So the inner dimensions have to
match.
So what this is effectively
doing is it's doing the dot
product on these three
observations with this vector
here.
So this takes 1 * 1 + 3 times -,
1, and we get out here in this
element -, 2, five times 1 + 7
times -, 1 we get, -, 2, and so
on and so forth.
OK, so the resulting, umm shape
then of this vector is going to
be the outside dimension.
So this is a 3 comma two and
this is a 2 comma one, so the
inside dimensions must match to
be able to perform this
operation and then you get a
vector.
That's the outside dimension.
So in this case two and two
match.
So we could do it and then we
have a 3 comma one, OK.
Alright, if those rules do not
match you, it is an illegal
operation.
Cannot perform that and you will
get goofed and Python will
complain about it.
OK, so check their ships.
Umm.
All right, so the length of the
vector must match the number of
columns in the matrix.
That's what I just said.
OK.
We also support multiplication
on matrices, so this works in a
very similar way, so that
dimensional rule still applies.
So here we have a three
comments, two and this is a 2
comma two so we can perform
this.
It effectively performs
sequential dot products though,
so it'll be the dot product
between this row vector and this
column vector will be then the
dot product between this row
vector and this column vector.
So that's the first dot product.
That's the second one.
This row now and this column,
this row, this column so on and
so forth.
You do so again.
That rule applies.
This is a 3 comma, 22 comma, 2.
The inside dimensions match two
and two match and then we get a
resulting vector.
That's three kind of two.
OK.
The number of columns in the
first matrix must match the
number of rows in the second to
perform.
So the way that we can do this
is here we have matrix vector
multiplication.
So you can use the dot product
between a matrix and a vector
and that will return this array
here and then for matrix
multiplication you can actually
use dot as well.
All right, you can also use Matt
Mull, so NP dot Matt Mull also
does matrix multiplication.
OK, so interpreting matrix
multiplication, why is this
important?
So it's important for a number
of reasons.
So one Model, 1 mental model
that you can use for application
of a matrix onto another matrix
is transformation.
So a lot of times you could
think of if you're doing matrix
multiplication between a matrix
and a vector, you're going to be
transforming this vector in some
way based off of these
parameters.
So the best way to conceive of
it are conceptualized.
This is what we can end up doing
is we can end up forming our
multiple linear regression model
in the form of linear algebra
where the coefficients of our
model is a vector and then the
data that we're applying it to
is a matrix, our feature matrix.
So you can do matrix
multiplication between these two
and what it ends up with is that
ends up with your response,
right?
So in in your project, you're
solving for multiple linear
regression on your data set,
right?
And how many features do you
have in your data set?
I don't remember.
Sorry, I'm asking open ended
questions that doesn't really
work in this for me.
Ohh, I was teaching earlier
today in person.
Umm, So what was I saying?
So you might have 10 features,
right?
You have beds, baths, square
footage, latitude, longitude.
You have all of those.
You apply your multiple linear
regression model to it and then
it transforms that into a single
value, which is your price.
Your response right?
So it's taking some kind of
transformation.
It's applying it to your matrix,
which is your feature matrix and
what you get out is you get a
vector out that is a
transformation of all of your
data into the response.
That's the same thing that
matrix multiplication is doing.
Umm, one of the reasons that we
do it this way is that it we
have really efficient libraries
that are I think compiled and
see for use with Numpy.
So it's really, really good at
doing like matrix multiplication
when we have things formatted
this one.
OK, so conversion other things
that we can use it for is
conversion from one coordinate
system space to another.
So I'll show you in a moment
with PCA what we do, what we
solve with PCA is that we can
solve for a transformation
matrix and then we can apply
that to our data and we can
transform our data from its
original feature space into the
component feature space.
All right, that's another
application we can project into
lower dimensional space.
That's what I was saying as far
as taking your features and
resolving them as a single
response.
That's a transformation into a
lower dimensional space.
You're going from 10 features
down to a single value, and we
can project them on to a space
onto again space.
Yeah, arson.
Umm can you go back to the
previous slide and show us how
we get a multidimensional array
in the dot product has a single
value as its output.
It seems here that the output is
actually still has multiple
columns and rows.
Right.
So with the dot product you can
think of matrix multiplication
as a special application or a
repeated application of dot
products.
So umm, Numpy supports the
overloading of I?
Maybe it's not even overloading.
Yeah, I guess it is of the dot
method.
So this is really performing
matrix multiplication between a
matrix in this case and a
vector.
So because of that, it's still
adheres to these rules where we
use the dimensions themselves,
in this case A3 by two and a two
by two, and we get a three by
two out.
It's just that Numpy itself
supports the use of dot for that
OK.
as well as uh, Matt Mull.
OK. Thanks.
Sure.
OK, so one way of thinking about
this is that we can think about
matrix multiplication.
So there's this example in here
if you're more familiar with
Fourier transforms.
Umm.
Uh, Fourier transforms.
What do they do?
They decompose your signal,
right?
Or really what they're doing is
they're transforming it into a
different space.
So that's where this analogy
comes from.
For those eyes out there, maybe
this is a better way of thinking
about it, and that if you have a
signal in time what the Fourier
transform does is it actually
turns that to a signal in
frequency.
So you're changing between these
two.
So that's one one way to our
conceptualize it right and here
you can see that we have our
frequency values.
We have this matrix over here
which this matrix would describe
our different individual
sinusoids that we're trying to
decompose the signal into, and
then we have matrix
multiplication with the data in
the time domain, and we can get
this extraction out this
transformation.
OK.
So we're all talking about the
same thing.
These are just different ways of
conceptualizing it.
I think once you start using
matrix multiplication, it can be
confusing at first, but I just
want to give you a number of
examples that may be one of
these strikes you.
Well, OK, so here's this example
we talked about principal
component analysis before.
So what we can do is we can
actually solve in principal
component analysis for this
matrix.
This matrix over here and then
by doing matrix multiplication
between our feature matrix in
our original feature space and
this solve matrix, we can
transform the data into the
principal components into a
lower dimensional space. OK.
Just a few more things and then
I think we're just about done.
So we also have identity
matrices, so these are just kind
of like fun special forms of
matrices.
So the identity matrix is a
matrix with zeros on the off
diagonals and then ones down the
diagonal.
So with the identity matrix,
does is that if you have a
matrix and you multiply it by
the identity matrix, you get
that same matrix out.
OK.
We also have a negation matrix,
so if we wanted to negate all
the values in our matrix, we
could use a identity matrix
multiplied by -, 1 by the scalar
value -, 1 OK that we can get a
negation.
Ohm.
Why would we need the normal
identity matrix?
I think there are a number of
reasons that we would.
One way that it appears is that
if we're doing some kind of
algebraic manipulation, so if
we're using linear algebra and
we wanna switch like a matrix
from one side of the equation to
the other side, what we can do
is we can take the inverse of
the matrix.
Wow, inverse of the matrix is
not always guaranteed, but if we
can take the inverse of the
matrix, the inverse of a matrix
matrix multiplied by the matrix
itself returns the identity
matrix.
So it's effectively like
multiplying by 1.
OK.
And in fact, you remember the
normal equation.
OK.
I'll go back to that.
That's one of the solutions for
multiple linear regression to
find the parameters.
I'll go back to the I'll pull
that up and after hours and
I'll, I'll show you what is
actually going on.
The OK we can also define a
permutation matrix.
So what the permutation matrix
does is it swaps the values
within the columns, or it swaps
the columns.
So in this case we have 1357911.
If we do ones off the diagonals,
what we end up with is 3175119.
Umm.
And then we can do operations
together.
So if we wanted to, you negate
as well as reverse the ordering,
we could apply these together.
So one thing that I hope you get
away from this lecture is that
the order that matrix
multiplication happens in does
in fact matter.
So it it's, uh, what's the
property?
Uh, commutative.
It doesn't support the
commutative wait.
I'm gonna embarrass myself.
I'm not gonna tell you that.
Scratch that from the record.
Uh, delete that back up 10
seconds and then or Fast forward
10 seconds and then play the
video OK.
So we can combine these
together.
And then yeah, I think that was
the last of what I wanted to
cover today.
Any questions over that?
Let me pull up the normal
equation.
We can take a look at that
again.
But while we're doing that, any
questions?